Google Deceptively Tracks Students’ Internet Browsing, EFF Says in FTC Complaint | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities EFF's 35th Anniversary Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcast Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Electronic Frontier Alliance Volunteer Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Donate Donate to EFF Giving Societies Shop Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Donate Donate to EFF Shop Other Ways to Give Google Deceptively Tracks Students’ Internet Browsing, EFF Says in FTC Complaint EFF Launches 'Spying on Students' Campaign to Raise Awareness About Privacy Risks of School Technology Tools PRESS RELEASE Press Release December 1, 2015 Google Deceptively Tracks Students’ Internet Browsing, EFF Says in FTC Complaint Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Copy link San Francisco—The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) filed a complaint today with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) against Google for collecting and data mining school children’s personal information, including their Internet searches—a practice EFF uncovered while researching its “Spying on Students” campaign, which launched today. The campaign was created to raise awareness about the privacy risks of school-supplied electronic devices and software. EFF examined Google’s Chromebook and Google Apps for Education ( GAFE ), a suite of educational cloud-based software programs used in many schools across the country by students as young as seven years old. While Google does not use student data for targeted advertising within a subset of Google sites, EFF found that Google’s “Sync” feature for the Chrome browser is enabled by default on Chromebooks sold to schools. This allows Google to track, store on its servers, and data mine for non-advertising purposes, records of every Internet site students visit, every search term they use, the results they click on, videos they look for and watch on YouTube, and their saved passwords. Google doesn’t first obtain permission from students or their parents and since some schools require students to use Chromebooks, many parents are unable to prevent Google’s data collection. Google’s practices fly in the face of commitments made when it signed the Student Privacy Pledge , a legally enforceable document whereby companies promise to refrain from collecting, using, or sharing students’ personal information except when needed for legitimate educational purposes or if parents provide permission. “Despite publicly promising not to, Google mines students’ browsing data and other information, and uses it for the company’s own purposes. Making such promises and failing to live up to them is a violation of FTC rules against unfair and deceptive business practices,” said EFF Staff Attorney Nate Cardozo. “Minors shouldn’t be tracked or used as guinea pigs, with their data treated as a profit center. If Google wants to use students’ data to ‘improve Google products,’ then it needs to get express consent from parents.” Google told EFF that it will soon disable a setting on school Chromebooks that allows Chrome Sync data, such as browsing history, to be shared with other Google services. While that is a small step in the right direction, it doesn’t go nearly far enough to correct the violations of the Student Privacy Pledge currently inherent in Chromebooks being distributed to schools. EFF’s filing with the FTC also reveals that the administrative settings Google provides to schools allow student personal information to be shared with third-party websites in violation of the Student Privacy Pledge. The ability to collect and potentially share student information follows children whenever they use Chrome to log into their Google accounts, whether on a parents’ Apple iPad, friend’s smartphone or home computer. “We commend schools for bringing technology into the classroom. Chromebooks and Google Apps for Education have enormous benefits for teaching and preparing students for the future. But devices and cloud services used in schools must, without compromise or loopholes, protect student privacy,” said EFF Staff Attorney Sophia Cope. “We are calling on the FTC to investigate Google’s conduct, stop the company from using student personal information for its own purposes, and order the company to destroy all information it has collected that’s not for educational purposes.” EFF’s “Spying on Students” project aims to educate parents and school administrators to the risks of data collection by companies supplying technology tools used by students. The website provides facts on how data is collected , a case study , links to resources for parents and school officials, and tips for improving privacy. Michael Godbe, a Fall 2015 EFF Legal Intern, helped prepare the FTC complaint, and Annelyse Gelman, EFF activist intern, helped prepare education material for the project. To view the FTC complaint: https://www.eff.org/document/ftc-complaint-google-education For more information on EFF’s “Spying on Students” project: https://www.eff.org/issues/student-privacy/ Contact: Sophia Cope Related Issues Privacy Student Privacy Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Copy link Join Our Newsletter! EFF.org requires JavaScript to sign up for EFFector emails. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings to subscribe. Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Sarah Hamid | December 30, 2025 EFF's Investigations Expose Flock Safety's Surveillance Abuses: 2025 in Review Throughout 2025, EFF conducted groundbreaking investigations into Flock Safety's automated license plate reader (ALPR) network , revealing a system designed to enable mass surveillance and susceptible to grave abuses. Our research sparked state and federal investigations, drove landmark litigation, and exposed dangerous expansion into always-listening voice detection technology. We documented... Deeplinks Blog by Hudson Hongo | December 28, 2025 EFFector Audio Speaks Up for Our Rights: 2025 Year in Review EFFector's audio companion features exclusive interviews where EFF's lawyers, activists, and technologists dig deeper into the biggest stories in privacy, free speech, and innovation. Here are some of the best interviews from EFFector Audio in 2025. Deeplinks Blog by Sarah Hamid | December 28, 2025 Procurement Power—When Cities Realized They Can Just Say No: 2025 in Review In 2025, elected officials across the country began treating surveillance technology purchases differently: not as inevitable administrative procurements handled by police departments, but as political decisions subject to council oversight and constituent pressure. This shift proved to be the most effective anti-surveillance strategy of the year.Since February, at least 23... Deeplinks Blog by Sarah Hamid | December 27, 2025 Local Communities Are Winning Against ALPR Surveillance—Here’s How: 2025 in Review Across ideologically diverse communities, 2025 campaigns against automated license plate reader (ALPR) surveillance kept winning. From Austin, Texas to Cambridge, Massachusetts to Eugene, Oregon , successful campaigns combined three practical elements: a motivated political champion on city council, organized grassroots pressure from affected communities, and technical assistance at... Deeplinks Blog by Hayley Tsukayama , Rindala Alajaji | December 26, 2025 States Take On Tough Tech Policy Battles: 2025 in Review State legislatures—from Olympia, WA , to Honolulu, HI , to Tallahassee, FL , and everywhere in between—kept EFF’s state legislative team busy throughout 2025.We saw some great wins and steps forward this year. Washington became the eighth state to enshrine the right to repair. Several states stepped up ... Deeplinks Blog by Paige Collings , Alexis Hancock , Christoph Schmon | December 25, 2025 Age Verification Threats Across the Globe: 2025 in Review Age verification mandates won't magically keep young people safer online, but that has not stopped governments around the world spending 2025 implementing or attempting to introduce legislation requiring all online users to verify their ages before accessing the digital space. Deeplinks Blog by Matthew Guariglia | December 23, 2025 AI Police Reports: Year In Review In 2024, EFF wrote our initial blog about what could go wrong when police let AI write police reports . Since then, the technology has proliferated at a disturbing rate. Why? The most popular generative AI tool for writing police reports is Axon’s Draft One, and Axon also happens to... Deeplinks Blog by Thorin Klosowski , Bill Budington , Rindala Alajaji , Christian Romero , Lena Cohen , Hayley Tsukayama , Cooper Quintin | December 17, 2025 The Breachies 2025: The Worst, Weirdest, Most Impactful Data Breaches of the Year Another year has come and gone, and with it, thousands of data breaches that affect millions of people. The question these days is less, Is my information in a data breach this year? and more How many data breaches had my information in them this year? Deeplinks Blog by Paige Collings | December 15, 2025 EFF, Open Rights Group, Big Brother Watch, and Index on Censorship Call on UK Government to Reform or Repeal Online Safety Act Ahead of today's Parliamentary petition debate on the Online Safety Act, EFF joined Open Rights Group, Big Brother Watch, and Index on Censorship in sending a briefing to UK politicians urging them to listen to their constituents and repeal the legislation. Press Release | December 10, 2025 EFF Launches Age Verification Hub as Resource Against Misguided Laws With ill-advised and dangerous age verification laws proliferating across the United States and around the world, creating surveillance and censorship regimes that will be used to harm both youth and adults, the Electronic Frontier Foundation has launched a new resource hub that will sort through the mess and help people... Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram x Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity & Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity & Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information