Researchers find new phase of carbon, make diamond at room temperature Topics Week's top Latest news Unread news Subscribe Science X Account Sign In Sign in with Forget Password? Not a member? Sign up Learn more Nanotechnology Physics Earth Astronomy & Space Chemistry Biology Other Sciences Medicine Technology share this! 34.5K Tweet Share Email Home Physics Condensed Matter November 30, 2015 Researchers find new phase of carbon, make diamond at room temperature by Matt Shipman, North Carolina State University This is a collection of 0.02, 0.03 and 0.04 carat solitaire diamonds weighing in total 5.36 carats. Credit: Swamibu/Wikipedia Researchers from North Carolina State University have discovered a new phase of solid carbon, called Q-carbon, which is distinct from the known phases of graphite and diamond. They have also developed a technique for using Q-carbon to make diamond-related structures at room temperature and at ambient atmospheric pressure in air. Phases are distinct forms of the same material. Graphite is one of the solid phases of carbon ; diamond is another. "We've now created a third solid phase of carbon," says Jay Narayan, the John C. Fan Distinguished Chair Professor of Materials Science and Engineering at NC State and lead author of three papers describing the work. "The only place it may be found in the natural world would be possibly in the core of some planets." Q-carbon has some unusual characteristics. For one thing, it is ferromagnetic – which other solid forms of carbon are not. "We didn't even think that was possible," Narayan says. In addition, Q-carbon is harder than diamond, and glows when exposed to even low levels of energy. "Q-carbon's strength and low work-function – its willingness to release electrons – make it very promising for developing new electronic display technologies," Narayan says. But Q-carbon can also be used to create a variety of single-crystal diamond objects. To understand that, you have to understand the process for creating Q-carbon. Researchers start with a substrate, such as sapphire, glass or a plastic polymer. The substrate is then coated with amorphous carbon – elemental carbon that, unlike graphite or diamond, does not have a regular, well-defined crystalline structure. The carbon is then hit with a single laser pulse lasting approximately 200 nanoseconds. During this pulse, the temperature of the carbon is raised to 4,000 Kelvin (or around 3,727 degrees Celsius) and then rapidly cooled. This operation takes place at one atmosphere – the same pressure as the surrounding air. The end result is a film of Q-carbon, and researchers can control the process to make films between 20 nanometers and 500 nanometers thick. By using different substrates and changing the duration of the laser pulse, the researchers can also control how quickly the carbon cools. By changing the rate of cooling, they are able to create diamond structures within the Q-carbon. "We can create diamond nanoneedles or microneedles, nanodots, or large-area diamond films, with applications for drug delivery, industrial processes and for creating high-temperature switches and power electronics," Narayan says. "These diamond objects have a single-crystalline structure, making them stronger than polycrystalline materials. And it is all done at room temperature and at ambient atmosphere – we're basically using a laser like the ones used for laser eye surgery. So, not only does this allow us to develop new applications, but the process itself is relatively inexpensive." And, if researchers want to convert more of the Q-carbon to diamond, they can simply repeat the laser-pulse/cooling process. If Q-carbon is harder than diamond, why would someone want to make diamond nanodots instead of Q-carbon ones? Because we still have a lot to learn about this new material. "We can make Q-carbon films, and we're learning its properties, but we are still in the early stages of understanding how to manipulate it," Narayan says. "We know a lot about diamond, so we can make diamond nanodots. We don't yet know how to make Q-carbon nanodots or microneedles. That's something we're working on." NC State has filed two provisional patents on the Q-carbon and diamond creation techniques. The work is described in two papers, both of which were co-authored by NC State Ph.D. student Anagh Bhaumik. "Novel Phase of Carbon, Ferromagnetism and Conversion into Diamond" will be published online Nov. 30 in the Journal of Applied Physics . "Direct conversion of amorphous carbon into diamond at ambient pressures and temperatures in air" was published Oct. 7 in the journal APL Materials . More information: "Novel Phase of Carbon, Ferromagnetism and Conversion into Diamond" Jagdish Narayan and Anagh Bhaumik, Published: Nov. 30, Journal of Applied Physics , DOI: 10.1063/1.4936595 Jagdish Narayan et al. Research Update: Direct conversion of amorphous carbon into diamond at ambient pressures and temperatures in air, APL Materials (2015). DOI: 10.1063/1.4932622 Journal information: Journal of Applied Physics Provided by North Carolina State University Citation : Researchers find new phase of carbon, make diamond at room temperature (2015, November 30) retrieved 6 January 2026 from https://phys.org/news/2015-11-phase-carbon-diamond-room-temperature.html This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only. Explore further Carbon nanothreads from compressed benzene 35332 shares Facebook Twitter Email Feedback to editors Featured Last Comments Popular Ancient clay cylinders provide first foundation text documenting Nebuchadnezzar II's restoration of the ziggurat of Kish 4 hours ago 0 Why we trust romantic partners rather than AI when making big financial decisions 4 hours ago 1 Rare 'firework morphology' of supernova remnant Pa 30 may be due to white dwarf wind 5 hours ago 2 How a biological version of rock-paper-scissors determines if lizard colors are maintained or lost 7 hours ago 0 Astronomers build molecular cloud atlas for nearby Andromeda galaxy 7 hours ago 0 Twitter data reveals partisan divide in understanding why pollen season's getting worse 11 minutes ago The book only gets 3 stars... but is considered great literature 24 minutes ago Catalyst behavior that could cut emissions and stabilize supply of everyday materials revealed 48 minutes ago New census of sun's neighbors reveals best potential real estate for life 1 hour ago Advanced quantum detectors are reinventing the search for dark matter 1 hour ago Mass spec innovation uses 'bin' sorting to detect overlooked molecules 1 hour ago Marine regression emerges as key driver of Late Paleozoic Ice Age in high-resolution model 1 hour ago Shelled amoeba crawls like an octopus, shifting tactics on the go 1 hour ago How well-meaning allies increase stress for marginalized people 2 hours ago Webb finds early-universe analog's unexpected talent for making dust 2 hours ago Relevant PhysicsForums posts Unexpected irregular reflection signal from a high-finesse cavity 2 hours ago Momentum density of silicon valence band using bandstructure Dec 22, 2025 Monte Carlo simulation for the classical isotropic 3D Heisenberg model Dec 3, 2025 Time rondeau crystals, experimental observations Dec 1, 2025 Wave properties of a phonon Nov 28, 2025 Does direct/indirect band gap occur in solids other than semiconductors? Nov 17, 2025 More from Atomic and Condensed Matter Related Stories Carbon nanothreads from compressed benzene May 20, 2015 Turning graphite into diamond Mar 28, 2014 Diamond in the rough: Half-century puzzle solved Jul 20, 2012 U.S. team creates diamond aerogel in lab by emulating Mother Nature May 10, 2011 Carbon nanowires obtained by tempering diamantane dicarboxylic acid inside carbon nanotubes Mar 6, 2013 Novel synthesis technique for high efficiency conversion of source gas to diamond Jun 17, 2013 Recommended for you Electrons that lag behind nuclei in 2D materials could pave way for novel electronics 4 hours ago Metal–metal bonded molecule achieves stable spin qubit state, opening path toward quantum computing materials Jan 5, 2026 Sudden breakups of monogamous quantum couples surprise researchers Jan 2, 2026 Evidence of a quantum spin liquid ground state in a kagome material Dec 27, 2025 Detecting the hidden magnetism of altermagnets Dec 26, 2025 Ultracold atoms observed climbing a quantum staircase Dec 25, 2025 Load comments (14) Get Instant Summarized Text (Gist) This summary was automatically generated using LLM. Full disclaimer Let us know if there is a problem with our content Use this form if you have come across a typo, inaccuracy or would like to send an edit request for the content on this page. For general inquiries, please use our contact form . For general feedback, use the public comments section below (please adhere to guidelines ). Please select the most appropriate category to facilitate processing of your request -- please select one -- Compliments / Critique Typos / Errors / Inaccuracies Edit / Removal request Your message to the editors Your email (optional, only if you'd like a response) Send Feedback Thank you for taking time to provide your feedback to the editors. Your feedback is important to us. However, we do not guarantee individual replies due to the high volume of messages. E-mail the story Researchers find new phase of carbon, make diamond at room temperature Your friend's email Your email I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more Your name Note Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose. The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Phys.org in any form. Your message Send Newsletter sign up Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties. Subscribe More information Privacy policy Donate and enjoy an ad-free experience We keep our content available to everyone. Consider supporting Science X's mission by getting a premium account. Remove ads Maybe later Medical Xpress Medical research advances and health news Tech Xplore The latest engineering, electronics and technology advances Science X The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web Newsletters Subscribe Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox Follow us Top Home Search Mobile version Help FAQ About Contact Support us Science X Account Archive News wire Android app iOS app RSS feeds Push notification © Phys.org 2003 - 2026 powered by Science X Network Privacy policy Terms of use E-mail newsletter Subscribe Follow us It appears that you are currently using Ad Blocking software . What are the consequences? ×