Blog | Fastmail Home Open menu Hide menu Product tour For business Support & Resources Support Fastmail help center Contact Fastmail support System status Report a security issue How to Move from Gmail Move from Outlook Move from Yahoo Move from Proton Move from HEY Get email for your domain Stop spam Achieve inbox zero Resources Blog Podcast About us Our values API Documentation Download the app Get fast, private email on all your devices. Download the app App Store Download Fastmail on the App Store Google Play Download Fastmail on Google Play Pricing Get fast, private email on all your devices. Download the app Log in Try for free Try for free Log in Blog RSS Search blog Search Understanding email encryption A comprehensive overview of how email is encrypted, the benefits, and the trade-offs. Neil Jenkins Chief Product Officer Privacy security Introducing the Fastmail desktop app Fastmail now has native apps for Mac, Windows & Linux. Neil Jenkins Chief Product Officer Productivity tips This blog post was not written with AI Email immutability matters even more in a world of AI. Here is how we enable your use of your data, in line with our values. Bron Gondwana CEO Company The Cache Crash What happens when a mysterious bug causes all your tests to fail once or twice a week? We try to solve these mysteries, even if it takes a year. Matthew Horsfall Principal Software Developer Technical Work offline with Fastmail Fastmail can now work offline on your phone and on the web. Neil Jenkins Chief Product Officer Productivity tips The new phishing: How to spot email scams in 2025 Your inbox is the key to almost everything you do online. No wonder scammers keep showing up. Dmitri Leonov CEO of Sanebox Company Privacy security Better themes, better navigation, better search Introducing more beautiful theming and faster navigation on desktop, plus a powerful new search tool. Neil Jenkins Chief Product Officer Productivity tips Fastmail joins the Internet Society Fastmail is proud to become a Bronze member of the Internet Society. Bron Gondwana CEO Company Addressing Privacy Fatigue Privacy fatigue is a real feeling — here's how to make it manageable Bek Fraser Chief Operations and People Officer Company Introducing the twom database format We replaced the twoskip database format with something faster and better. Bron Gondwana CEO Technical A revamped Fastmail inbox We’ve rolled out an updated look to your message list, in both our webmail and mobile apps. Neil Jenkins Chief Product Officer Productivity tips Happy International Email Day Celebrate International Email Day with us! Discover why email still rules and how Fastmail is making it better every day. Bek Fraser Chief Operations and People Officer Company Previous 1 Next Footer navigation Email and calendar made better Product Product tour For business Pricing Security Privacy How to Move from Gmail Move from Outlook Move from Yahoo Move from Proton Move from HEY Get email for your domain Stop spam Achieve inbox zero Support & Resources Blog Podcast Fastmail help center Contact Fastmail support API Documentation Report a security issue Download the app Company About us Our values Careers Open source and standards Partner with us Policies Media kit © 2026 Fastmail Pty Ltd. All rights reserved. System status Terms of service Privacy policy Mastodon X LinkedIn Facebook