Mozilla Wants To Split Off Its Thunderbird Email/Chat Client, Says Mitchell Baker Memo | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps CES 2026 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech & Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government & Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media & Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Mozilla Wants To Split Off Its Thunderbird Email/Chat Client, Says Mitchell Baker Memo Ingrid Lunden 3:38 PM PST · November 30, 2015 The Mozilla Foundation looks like it’s about to take another step in its bid to sharpen its focus on development around its Firefox browser. Mozilla now wants to once and for all hive off support for Thunderbird , the free email, chat and news client it first developed in 2004 but effectively stopped directly updating in in 2012 . The plans were revealed in a company-wide memo penned today by chairperson Mitchell Baker. (We have confirmed with Mozilla that it is indeed from her.) “I believe Thunderbird should would thrive best by separating itself from reliance on Mozilla development systems and in some cases, Mozilla technology,” Baker wrote in her open memo, posted on Mozilla’s public governance forum . “The current setting isn’t stable, and we should start actively looking into how we can transition in an orderly way to a future where Thunderbird and Firefox are un-coupled.” Baker notes that it is not clear whether Mozilla will try to spin off Thunderbird as its own open-source entity, or whether it will seek a business partner to take over the product; it seems too early to tell at this point. What is more clear is that Mozilla has been trying to streamline how it runs things and the focus of its engineers as part of a bigger campaign to rejuvenate Firefox, part of a long-term fightback to gain more market share against competitors like Google Chrome. Mozilla now views any support for Thunderbird, even the limited support it has been providing for the past three years, as akin to “paying a tax,” in Baker’s words, on top of the work those engineers spend building Firefox. “These competing demands are not good for either project,” she writes. “Engineers working on Thunderbird must focus on keeping up and adapting Firefox’s web-driven changes. Engineers working on Firefox and related projects end up considering the competing demands of Thunderbird, and/or wondering if and how much they should assist Thunderbird. Neither project can focus wholeheartedly on what is best for it.” Apart from the fact that Mozilla had cut off most development support in 2012 , Thunderbird has become a somewhat anachronistic product. Techcrunch event Join the Disrupt 2026 Waitlist Add yourself to the Disrupt 2026 waitlist to be first in line when Early Bird tickets drop. Past Disrupts have brought Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, and Vinod Khosla to the stages — part of 250+ industry leaders driving 200+ sessions built to fuel your growth and sharpen your edge. Plus, meet the hundreds of startups innovating across every sector. Join the Disrupt 2026 Waitlist Add yourself to the Disrupt 2026 waitlist to be first in line when Early Bird tickets drop. Past Disrupts have brought Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, and Vinod Khosla to the stages — part of 250+ industry leaders driving 200+ sessions built to fuel your growth and sharpen your edge. Plus, meet the hundreds of startups innovating across every sector. San Francisco | October 13-15, 2026 W AITLIST NOW Hitting the market in 2004, at a time when many consumers were still wedded to desktop clients to access email services, Thunderbird got off to a flying start, with 1 million downloads in its first 10 days of life. But in the years following, many switched to mobile apps and web-based clients, and Thunderbird’s popularity waned. Mozilla and the wider Thunderbird community have not provided any updates on how many Thunderbird users there are today, or how many downloads of the client, or what kind of usage the application sees. And for Mozilla itself, focus has largely switched to developing its core Firefox browser for more platforms , and generally making Firefox more of a business, integrating with Yahoo and Google to generate revenues around search ads. When Mozilla passed Thunderbird development on to a volunteer-led community in 2012, it committed itself only to providing “ extended support releases ” focused only on security and maintenance updates mainly aimed at large organizations who use Thunderbird. In that regard, for Thunderbird and its users, this is potentially a rough turn, but it’s not really a surprising one. Full text of the memo below: This is a long-ish message. It covers general topics about Thunderbird and the future, and also the topics of the Foundation involvement (point 9) and the question of merging repositories (point 11). Naturally, I believe it’s worth the time to read through the end. 1. Firefox and Thunderbird have lived with competing demands for some time now. Today Thunderbird developers spend much of their time responding to changes made in core Mozilla systems and technologies. At the same time, build, Firefox, and platform engineers continue to pay a tax to support Thunderbird. 2. These competing demands are not good for either project. Engineers working on Thunderbird must focus on keeping up and adapting Firefox’s web-driven changes. Engineers working on Firefox and related projects end up considering the competing demands of Thunderbird, and/or wondering if and how much they should assist Thunderbird. Neither project can focus wholeheartedly on what is best for it. 3. These competing demands will not get better soon. Instead, they are very likely to get worse. Firefox and related projects are now speeding up the rate of change, modernizing our development process and our infrastructure. Indeed, this is required for Mozilla to have significant impact in the current computing environment. 4. There is a belief among some that living with these competing demands is good for the Mozilla project as a whole, because it gives us an additional focus, assists Thunderbird as a dedicated open source community, and also supports an open source standards based email client. This sentiment is appealing, and I share it to some extent. There is also a sense that caring for fellow open source developers is good, which I also share. However, point 2 above — “Neither project can focus wholeheartedly on what is best for it” — is the most important point. Having Thunderbird has an additional product and focus is *not* good overall if it causes all of our products — Firefox, other web-driven products and Thunderbird — to fall short of what we can accomplish. 5. Many inside of Mozilla, including an overwhelming majority of our leadership, feel the need to be laser-focused on activities like Firefox that can have an industry-wide impact. With all due respect to Thunderbird and the Thunderbird community, we have been clear for years that we do not view Thunderbird as having this sort of potential. 6. Given this, it’s clear to me that sooner or later paying a tax to support Thunderbird will not make sense as a policy for Mozilla. I know many believe this time came a while back, and I’ve been slow to say this clearly. And of course, some feel that this time should never come. However, as I say, it’s clear to me today that continuing to live with these competing demands given our focus on industry impact is increasingly unstable. We’ve seen this already, in an unstructured way, as various groups inside Mozilla stop supporting Thunderbird. The accelerating speed of Firefox and infrastructure changes — which I welcome wholeheartedly — will emphasize this. 7. Some Mozillians are eager to see Mozilla support community-managed projects within our main development efforts. I am also sympathetic to this view, with a key precondition. Community-managed projects that make the main effort less nimble and likely to succeed don’t fit very well into this category for me. They can still be great open source projects — this is a separate question from whether the fit in our main development systems. I feel so strongly about this because I am so concerned that “the Web” we love is at risk. If we want the traits of the Web to live and prosper in the world of mobile, social and data then we have to be laser-focused on this. 8. Therefore I believe Thunderbird should would thrive best by separating itself from reliance on Mozilla development systems and in some cases, Mozilla technology. The current setting isn’t stable, and we should start actively looking into how we can transition in an orderly way to a future where Thunderbird and Firefox are un-coupled. I don’t know what this will look like, or how it will work yet. I do know that it needs to happen, for both Firefox and Thunderbird’s sake. This is a big job, and may require expertise that the Thunderbird team doesn’t yet have. Mozilla can provide various forms of assistance to the Thunderbird team via a set of the Mozilla Foundation’s capabilities. 9. Mark Surman of the Mozilla Foundation and I are both interested in helping find a way for Thunderbird to separate from Mozilla infrastructure. We also want to make sure that Thunderbird has the right kind of legal and financial home, one that will help the community thrive. Mark has been talking with the Thunderbird leadership about this, and has offered some of his time and focus and resources to assist. He will detail that offer in a separate message. We both recognize that the Thunderbird community is dedicated to sustaining a vibrant open source project, which is why we’re currently looking at how best to assist with both technical separation and identifying the right long-term home for Thunderbird. These discussions are very early, so it’s easy to you can definitely think of a lot of questions for which there are’s no answers yet. 10. The fact that the Foundation is facilitating these discussions does not necessarily mean that the Foundation is or is not the best legal and financial home for Thunderbird. The intent is not to make technical decisions about support of Thunderbird by Mozilla employees, or merging repositories, etc. Point 6 above is the shared organizing principle for both of us. 11. I understand from recent discussions that merging mozilla-central and comm-central would provide some reduction of effort required to ship Thunderbird, at least in the short term. This would make sense if our path was long term integration of the projects. As i noted above, I believe our path has to be the long term separation of these projects, so that each can move as fast as possible into new things. Given that, I’m not sure that merging them makes sense. I have to learn a bit more about the cost / benefit analysis of merging repositories given the need to separate these project. I’m asking the platform and release folks to comment on this. 12. This message is about the future and there’s a lot to work out. It’s explicitly not to announce changes in daily activities at this point. People using Thunderbird will not see any change in the product they use. We have started this conversation early because Mozilla works best when our community is engaged. This is how we gather the people who are interested, and enable those folks to engage productively within the process. It also of course allows those who prefer a different course of action to be vocal. We’ve seen this before with Thunderbird. Building a positive response and a positive conversation will be a very useful first step in making a good future for Thunderbird. Mitchell Update : Baker has also posted about Thunderbird on her personal blog, noting that the plan is not based on “dropping” Thunderbird. Topics Desktop , developers , email , Enterprise , Firefox , Mozilla , thunderbird Ingrid Lunden Europe Editor Ingrid was a writer and editor for TechCrunch, from February 2012 through May 2025, based out of London. Before TechCrunch, Ingrid worked at paidContent.org, where she was a staff writer, and has in the past also written freelance regularly for other publications such as the Financial Times. Ingrid covers mobile, digital media, advertising and the spaces where these intersect. When it comes to work, she feels most comfortable speaking in English but can also speak Russian, Spanish and French (in descending order of competence). View Bio Dates TBD Locations TBA Plan ahead for the 2026 StrictlyVC events. Hear straight-from-the-source candid insights in on-stage fireside sessions and meet the builders and backers shaping the industry. Join the waitlist to get first access to the lowest-priced tickets and important updates. Waitlist Now Most Popular Hacktivist deletes white supremacist websites live onstage during hacker conference Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai Plaud launches a new AI pin and a desktop meeting notetaker Ivan Mehta 10 useful gadgets for your first apartment Lauren Forristal Clicks debuts its own take on the BlackBerry smartphone, plus a $79 snap-on mobile keyboard Sarah Perez Techcrunch event Join the Disrupt 2026 Waitlist Add yourself to the Disrupt 2026 waitlist to be first in line when Early Bird tickets drop. Past Disrupts have brought Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, and Vinod Khosla to the stages — part of 250+ industry leaders driving 200+ sessions built to fuel your growth and sharpen your edge. Plus, meet the hundreds of startups innovating across every sector. Join the Disrupt 2026 Waitlist Add yourself to the Disrupt 2026 waitlist to be first in line when Early Bird tickets drop. Past Disrupts have brought Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, and Vinod Khosla to the stages — part of 250+ industry leaders driving 200+ sessions built to fuel your growth and sharpen your edge. Plus, meet the hundreds of startups innovating across every sector. San Francisco | October 13-15, 2026 W AITLIST NOW OpenAI bets big on audio as Silicon Valley declares war on screens Connie Loizos The dumbest things that happened in tech this year Amanda Silberling The phone is dead. Long live . . . what exactly? Connie Loizos Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy R